2019-11-7 

Stress talk
Brexit Talk
Veteran's Day reminder
Return Consultations
Give out Consultation
Mini-lecture on debt obligations
Work-time

2019-11-5 

3 questions: People assume this about me, which isn't fair. 
Related to wow do you work well in groups will people of dissilimilar backgrounds. 

What is the difference between empathy and sympathy?
If you witness offensive actions in school or the workplace, what are your options for responding? 
What is a bad faith argument? (Example: colonialism brougt some good things to Africa too)

Chattel vs. contract or service slavery
2nd Colonialism 1840s- 1960s 

Useful terms
Privilege
Race as a cultural construct
Mercantalism 
Capitalism
Industrialization

2019-10-31

Historical Statistics Questionaire
Experiment Worktime
Infectious Disease Lecture

2019-10-29

3 questions:
1. You can understand historical context of a source just by looking at the source. True or false
2. You need a certain GPA to get into certain colleges or graduate programs? 
3. A suit is the best outfit to wear to a job interview.


Quizzes
How to Lie with Numbers
Y axis lies
Relative vs absolute changes, percent changes 
Correlation vs causation (correlation coefficient of 1 to -1
Ignoring other world comparative frameworks
Cynicism 

 

2019-10-22 

3 questions: 
1. Is intelligence fixed or is it something that is dynamic, and can grow with effort? 
2. Music can help you concentrate on studying? 
3. "English majors ages 25 to 29 had a lower unemployment rate in 2017 than math and computer science majors." 
https://t.co/P7Ep52Y9qk 
Quizzes
Experiment 7
Experiment 9 
Attendance

2019-10-15

3 questions: What state has the highest per-capita number of refugees in the country?
On Thursday, 2019-10-10, President Trump stated at a political rally ". . . As you know, for many years, leaders in Washington brought large numbers of refugees to your state from Somalia. . . " and the crowd cheered. Source: https://www.rev.com/blog/donald-trump-minnesota-rally-speech-transcript-minneapolis-mn-rally-october-10-2019 and https://youtu.be/cARkACFmYIk 
What is the definition of a refugee: "US Citizenship and Immigration Service definition of a refugee: someone who "Demonstrates that they were persecuted or fear persecution due to race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group." Source: https://www.uscis.gov/humanitarian/refugees-asylum/refugees
The U.N. Human Refugee Agency defines a refugee as "someone who has been forced to flee his or her country because of persecution, war or violence. A refugee has a well-founded fear of persecution for reasons of race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a particular social group." Source: https://www.unrefugees.org/refugee-facts/what-is-a-refugee/
What does Normandale have to say about refugees?: "We are committed to the principle that all individuals are to be treated with equality and dignity without discrimination regardless of race, color, national or ethnic origin, religion, gender, sexual orientation, disability, age, economic, and/or marital status.

Normandale Community College is committed to providing an environment that is safe and respectful. The college will work diligently to make sure all our dealings with each other are marked by decency, empathy and civility.

Normandale Community College acknowledges a special responsibility to be sensitive to the concerns of those who are most vulnerable to discrimination and harassment.

Normandale Community College resolutely condemns conduct and expressions of bigotry, hatred, prejudice or disrespect." Source: http://www.normandale.edu/why-normandale/campus-diversity 
Review Quizzes
Consultation: Review the tenets of Buddhism - write down what items you might want to look for when evaluating Buddhist art from the story of Siddartha Gautuma
Experiment 8 


2019-10-8

Active shooter drill Thursday. 
Please be safe if you plan to attend the demonstrations for the Trump/Pence visit here in MN. 
Three questions: Starting October 21st, where will advising, registration, and financial services be located? 
Where is the campus cupboard? 
Do we have Indegenous Peoples', also known as Columbus day off of school? 
Quizzes (Closing 6 and opening 7) 
Consultation: List of Japan and India family themes
A note on mourning on campus. 

2019-10-3 
Next week: Off Thursday, please take the survey. 
Consultation: The year is 1860. You are an Indian economic advisor to group of rebels who wish to create an independent state of India. What are the primary impediments to India's economic growth? Write a paragraph (you will likely need to use your readings). 20 minutes.
Discussions: Share your ideas from your paragraphs.
Work time: Experiment 6
Mini-lecture: The economics of prejudice. 
  Key terms: Patriarchy, racism, efficiency, settler-colonialism, Indian Ocean trade, cotton, tea, opium, 1757, 1858, British East India Company.



2019-09-30
Three questions:
1. What is the difference between an private, public, non-profit, and for-profit college? 
2. What costs more, a college that charges $50,000 and a college that charges $19,000?
3. Organize your selves in sequences of four based on birth month. 
Quizzes
Attendance
Sequencing and citations discussions. 
Experiment 6


2019-09-26

Explainer: What is impeachment? Have other president's been impeached? https://now.tufts.edu/articles/impeachment-explainer
Discussion: What are the central historical themese you see emerging from your research? What ideas pop out? What struggles are you having? 
Work time: Experiment 5
Mini-lecture: Silver ties Shakespeare, Cervantes, and Wu together. 
1570s: Chinese Single Whip Reforms- taxes paid in silver
Mines in Zacatecas, Mexico and Potosi, Bolivia sent silver to Alcupulco, which sent it on to Manila, Philippines, and then to China. 
1639-40 Silver imports impload due to Japanese and Philippine political issues, and the Ming dynasy's economy into recession, resulting in the fall of the Ming empire in 1644.

2019-09-24

Three questions
STEM majors always make more money than liberal arts majors? 
What percentage of students are housing insecure (homeless) during a given year?
How many credits is an Associates degree? 
Attendance
Quizzes
Experiment 5 

2019-09-17
Get three questions together. 
Class Attendance
Return Consultation 3
What do you know?: 3 questions
1. When does Spring semester schedule become available? October 23. 
2. What is a transfer pathway? A degree plan that four-year state schools will automatically accept you with junior status. 
3. True or False: If you are failing a class, you should withdraw so it doesn't show up on your class record? 
Closing quiz 3, Opening quiz 4
Experiment 4


2019-09-12
15 minutes= Consulations: What new information have you learned about the 16th century, the Ottoman empire, or how metadata structures our access to historical sources? 
Work Time: Experiment 3, Reflection, Closing quiz 3, Reading Week 4, Opening Quiz Week 4
15 Minutes: Background lecture: Religion in the Mediterranean in the 16th century: Christians, Jews, and Muslims and the 1st colonialism
5 Minutes: Questions 


2019-09-10 

Class attendance
Return Consultations 1,2
Economic Forum and Code Switch
Stump the professor questions:
  - If you lose housing, where can you go to learn about your options: Resource Center or Advising Center
  - If you want to know when you financial aid will be disbursed, who can you ask? - Faculty or financial aid office. 
  - If you want to help with your sociology project, where can you go? Tutoring center, Library, or tutor.com through D2L.
  
Review Quiz
Watch Check, please! Video
Leveling and Sharpening - Examples in history
Talk about Meta-data in your life
Start Experiment 3

2019-09-5 

Fire Drill
Return Consult 1
Consult 2
Quiz grading
Ask Historians
Experiment 2 work time

2019-09-3 

Roll Call
Questions
Skill Worksheet
Weekly Experiment
Library Introduction

2019-08-29

Roll call
Discuss three areas you found vital
Login to email, office 365, D2L
Take the intake form
Due date (Friday for reflection) 
Reflection- Name- three areas crucial for success
Review the Experiment

2019-08-27

This is World History 2
D2L and Homepage
Resources for students (on syllabus) 
Five facts that complicate our ability to find evidence about the past:
1. The internet exists and people use it to learn new information.
2. There is more non-evidence based information on the internet than evidence-based information. 
3. More than 50% of searches on google result in no-clicks.
4. Your use of the internet is tracked extensively. 
5. Web pages do not exist, but are conjured upon clicks. 

Consultation: Conversation- Introduce yourself and share at least one thing you have learned that has made you successful in your academic career. 
It could be knowledge, a skill, or a mentality. 

From this list, please chose three knowledge statements to investigate before Thursday. 
